Which brings me on to testing live apps.
Once your app is up and running,
really, now's the moment, people.
This is the moment where
actually testing is so, so
important because you'll never get
your app right first time, right?
Setting aside MVPs and all the rest of it,
you'll make a mess of it, you'll
do something wrong, there'll be things
that can be improved without a doubt.
So this is the point where
you've really got a kick in and
start really paying attention
to what's going on.
That's so much easier if you've
got the right tools for the job.
I highly recommend Microsoft clarity, and
installing that,
you probably never even heard of it,
but it's a free version of Hotjar, right?
Very low impact on performance,
which I like, and
it gives me everything I need to
monitor users on a live app, right?
And by the way, it works with native apps
as well, which obviously is important.
So what do I do?
Okay, so once I've got Microsoft clarity
up and running, what I'm basically doing
straightaway is I'm diving into clarity
and I'm looking for certain things, right?
I'm paying attention to certain analytics,
exit points.
Where are people abandoning the app, okay?
That's actually almost more useful when
you're talking about an informational
website, cuz on apps it's
a bit more complicated.
But you will be able to see that maybe
people drop out from certain places
where they're getting frustrated.
But where you've got the real good
metrics are things like misclicks, where
people are clicking on something that's
not clickable or isn't currently active.
So oftentimes a button that's disabled or
they think they can click through to get
more information on a link or on a piece
of text where it's not really clickable,
or all things like that,
you'll suddenly see all of those, right?
Rage clicks is another one.
[LAUGH] Where people just lose their shit
and start going, no, no, no, no, you've
got a big issue when you start seeing
a lot of those on a particular screen.
And then there's excessive scrolling,
where people are going, if you roll that
up, and they just shoot up and down
a page when they're kind of, you reach
a certain point when you've done that,
so you've looked for what you're seeing.
You're not seeing it, so
then you start going like that, right?
Everybody does it,
it's a weird thing that we do.
So it's a good indication that you've
got something wrong at that point.
And then the final one is quick backs.
So they go to a screen and
then go immediately back,
which means that obviously, they didn't
find what they were looking for, or
they didn't look like what they
expected it to, or there's an issue.
So I start with that.
And I look at those problem areas,
and you can get them as heat maps and
so you can look at those pages.
Sometimes it is obvious, right?
Yeah, they tried to click on something
that's not clickable that really should
have been a clickable thing, we'll make
it clickable thing job done, right, yeah.
>> Well, this catch on unhandled
exception errors or it just-
>> Yeah, I think it will actually.
I didn't mention that cuz I'm not focusing
so much on kind of debugging and things
like that, but we should pick up that
kind of thing as well, error messaging.
I haven't used it, so I can't 100%
promise that, but I think it does.
So yeah, there's sometimes you look at it
and go, all right, so people are having
problems at this point, but I'm not
entirely sure what's going on here.
So you can get additional clarification,
heat maps, work really well, so
you can now dig in and
go, okay, well let's
have a look at the scrolling on that page,
let's look at what people are clicking on.
The heat map sometimes help, but the one
that really helps is session recordings.
So I watched back session recording,
so let's say a particular screen,
it's got loads of rage clicks going on it.
So what I will do is,
I'll filter my sessions by all of
those that go to that screen and
do rage clicks.
And then I'll watch sit and
watch those videos back and
see what people are doing, right,
and where it's going wrong.
Now, if I get really
sudden 90% of the time,
you'll then go, yeah, but doing that.
[LAUGH] Yeah, we messed up.
So, and you're like, okay,
I know how to fix this, right?
The other 10% of the time, you guys, I
still have no clue what's happening there.
So that's when I would run some
facilitated usability testing, right?
Because then I can actually talk to that
person and work out what's happening
there, cuz obviously you can't talk
to people over session recordings.
But most of the time you'll have
an idea of what's gone wrong.
So then we've got fixed what's gone wrong,
right?
And there's two ways of
kind of testing those fixes
depending on the size of the fix,
one is AB testing.
AB testing used to be so easy,
there used to be Google Optimize, and
you could just shove it on your site and
you could do AB testing.
These days they've closed
down Google Optimize,
which is such a shame because it was free.
And now there are lots of
expensive things like convert,
which cost like 300 plus
dollars a month to run, but
the AB testing is great, because
basically, it gives you a WYSIWYG editor.
So if it's just little changes like I need
to change the color of the button, or
I need to move this image, or
I need a bit of explanation text added.
You could do all of that
through a WYSIWYG editor and
just run it with a percentage of users
to see whether it improved things.
And if it did,
then you can roll it out to everybody.
There are alternatives Crazy Egg
is a much cheaper platform,
not quite as powerful,
but does do AB testing.
So if you wanna give it a go by
all means that's one way to do it.
We get into AB testing a bit
more in the other course.
The other option is testing
big solute solutions.
So what do I mean by that?
Well, sometimes it's not a matter
of just changing a bit of text or
changing a color on a button.
Sometimes it's, yeah,
we're gonna have to change the whole
way that filters work here.
Or this really needs a wizard
bit used doing it for you.
And that kind of thing you can't easily
do with AB testing, cuz with AB testing,
you have to build it.
And if you don't know whether your
solution is gonna be a good one, you don't
wanna spend all that money, building that
thing for it to then not work, right?
So in those situations,
it's back to prototyping again.
We wireframe it up,
we do some testing with some facilitated
usability testing,
see whether it seems to work for people.
And if it does, then we build it and
then we roll it out.
So that's kind of how I handled testing,
I went through that really fast because I
wanted ample time for the last part, but
there is an entire course
on that if you so wish.
Just to kind of wrap that up, testing is
absolutely essential to product design.
If you're working in a company and they're
trying that you're doing product design
and you don't get to test, then you're
not doing product design, right?
I don't know what you're doing,
but you're not doing that.
Testing should be done, in my opinion,
at least often and early, right?
Lots of little rounds of testing,
testing very, very specific things that
you're worried about or concerned about,
not just doing it for the sake of it.
And I would argue it can be carried out
throughout the development cycle from
initial wireframing to
post launch iteration.
There's never a time when you
won't be unsure about something,
you won't disagree about something, you
won't need clarification over something.
So as long as those things are happening,
there's an opportunity
to run a little test.
Are there any questions about testing,
cuz I have gone through that so
ridiculously fast?
And I recognize not everybody has
seen the other course, so I'm happy
to deal with any questions here, yeah,
>> Just a quick comment.
In my last client,
doing mobile is a little bit harder
in terms of deployment cycles.
>> Yeah.
>> Because we have to
go through the stores.
So Google or Apple are gonna say,
hey, you did something wrong,
then that brings us back to,
we got to go fix it.
So the way we did our testing was,
whenever there was a new feature,
the UX UI team would come to us and
say, here's the flow,
this is what we're playing for.
And then that's when we get all our input,
and
we break it down to small stories to
incrementally get to that final feature.
But before story got into a PR review,
>> Yeah.
>> The developer that worked
on that story would showcase.
>> Yeah.
>> So we would do what we call
an amigo review.
>> Yeah.
>> And then we would get stakeholders,
UI UX teams, all you know,
we didn't add enough padding here or
something some,
>> Yeah.
>> So every time we did a story,
we did very early amigo testing.
>> Yeah.
>> Got feedback from everybody, and
that helped a lot because by the time we
finally did push to the store everyone had
their input.
So it came down to story, developers
showed their work, got the feedback,
and then went through PR review,
and then it went through QA, and
then we went through
the product owners approval.
>> Where's the user in that?
And that's the shortcut,
everything else sounded great, right?
You were engaging with stakeholders,
you had a good working relationship
between UX and development, but
there is no interaction with
the user in that process, right?
And that's the fundamental problem there.
And I understand that you have
this barrier this of the store.
But that doesn't mean that, when the UX
team, perhaps the UX team are doing it and
you're just not aware, cuz you've
been working on the development side.
But when the UX team is
creating that prototype,
that prototype needs to be put in front of
users to make sure that that's working.
>> I have to step back,
I'm sorry, we did have users.
>> Right.
>> So we-
>> Cuz it's such a thorough process.
So I was like,
how can there not be users logged in that?
>> Before we were finally
released to the general audience?
>> Yeah.
>> There's tools called
Google Play store and TestFlight.
>> Yeah.
>> That's where you could say, hey,
this is going really into production, but
into a limit number of production.
>> And that's fine, and has its value,
but you've fallen into that
trap of all the testing being at
the end when it's most expensive and
most difficult to change it.
I would say that your UX team at
the beginning, when they mock it up and
prototype it,
they should pass it via some users.
It's not gonna be a final app or
anything like that.
But in Figma for crying out launch,
there's an associated
mobile app which allows you to display
prototypes and tests with them.
Lookback I think works on mobile as well,
so you can record the screen and
do that kind of things.
Or you could get people in,
there's lots of ways of doing it.
Or you could just do, even if all you
did was a little bit of testing on some
mock-up screens that were related to it,
that's better than nothing.
So I would try and push some testing
towards the beginning of the process,
so that there's more
flexibility to change.
Cuz let's be honest, once it's gone
through QA, once all the stakeholders
have approved it, once the developer
has built it, there's no way.
Even if it's then sent out to test
flight and everybody hates it,
it's gone through so many rounds of
getting internal approval that you're not
gonna change it at that late date,
it's too late.
So that's why testing earlier
is always better, in my opinion,
I keep adding my opinion.
>> I guess you're right, we really didn't
incorporate the users at the early phases.
>> If so, and that's the trouble,
that's a big problem, whenever I need
to learn this actually, because I've
fallen into this several times.
I talk about testing, and in my head,
I'm always talking about user testing.
But of course, if you're a developer,
you're not talking about,
you're talking about quality and
bug testing and that kind of stuff.
So different people use the same
language to mean different things,
and actually that's really dangerous.
So, yeah, user testing, testing with
users is the bit that's often missing,
cuz people will go, yeah, we do testing,
but they're thinking of QA testing, right?
The reason that I rushed through that
section is cuz I didn't wanna spend
a little bit more time on our next
session, which is building design systems.